One person remains missing and two others were rescued from the surf in Northern California after a tsunami caused by a deadly earthquake in Japan continued to reverberate across the Pacific Ocean.

Three people taking pictures of the surf near the mouth of the Klamath River, about 20 miles south of Crescent City, Calif., were surprised by large waves and swept into the water, said Cindy Henderson, emergency services officer for Del Norte County.

Two of the people struggled out of the surf and a male in his 20s is still missing, and is now the focus of a search and rescue operation, said a Coast Guard spokesman.

The tsunami, which has prompted warnings along the west coast and in Hawaii, was created after a 8.9-magnitude earthquake rocked Japan's eastern coast. A 30-foot tsunami hit northern Japan, engulfing buildings and cars. Japanese media reported nearly 200 people had died in the quake--the most powerful to hit the country in at least 300 years--and 700 were missing.

On the west coast, the tsunami has delivered a series of surges that began sweeping ashore by mid-morning and so far peaking at 8.1 feet in the Crescent City area, according to Henderson.

Each surge is preceded by a rapid decrease in water level as the approaching wall of water at sea pulls water away from the shore only to deliver it back in a surge that is both higher and at greater volume.

The powerful draw drained virtually all the water form the Crescent City Harbor, said Henderson, leaving boats sitting on the bottom and then refloating them minutes later in a crashing jumble.

"We've got boats on top of boats down there," said Henderson. It's incorrect to say any of the craft sank because the water keeps going away, she said.

Henderson said most of the docks and about 35 boats have been damaged.

The shallow and open mouth of Crescent City Harbor makes it susceptible to tidal surges. The harbor even experience some tsunami affect from last year's Chilean earthquake, she said.

Most commercial fishing boats based in Crescent City put to sea last night when the tsunami alert was first broadcast. It's easier to ride out big waves at sea than at the dock. Now many of those boats are running low on fuel, but they are unable to return to port while the surges continue, said Chris Renner, owner of C. Renner Petroleum Co. in Crescent City, which serves the fleet.

"I've got customers trying to figure out what's next," said Renner, who has been in radio contact with the skippers, but hasn't been allowed to return to his waterfront facility to assess the damage.

He estimated there were between 11 and 14 vessels outside the harbor waiting for calm. The nearest ports that could service the vessels are Eureka, Calif, about 80 miles south, or Gold Beach, Ore., 50 miles to the north.

Further north, two people watching the surf near Pistol River, Ore., about 50 miles north of Crescent City, were rescued from a tsunami surge estimated to be about six feet.

Don Kendall, emergency services coordinator in the region said onlookers were surprised by waves and pulled from the surf by companions and local fire and rescue staff. Officials are urging spectators to be cautious and in some communities Kendall has sounded a second tsunami alarm.

"This situation isn't over and people need to be cautious," said Kendall.

Oregon evacuated homes and businesses along its 300-mile coastline. In Lincoln County, in the center of the Oregon coast, evacuations began shortly after 5 a.m. in anticipation of a surge of three feet.

"We've evacuated residences and buildings up to 50 feet above sea level," said Casey Miller, spokesman for the county's emergency management office. Beaches are closed and spotters are keeping an eye on the surf.

Oregon put a tsunami response plan in place along the coast a decade ago, including details down to street signs in many communities that point the way to high ground. Oregon Emergency Management spokeswoman Jenni Chamberlain said there have been no reports of injuries or serious problems since the agency sent its first alert to counties at around 10 p.m. Thursday night.
